# INFORMS
This page is my introduction for various folks in data and analytics to my favorite professional society - INFORMS

The opinions contained are my own.

INFORMS homepage is [https://www.informs.org/](https://www.informs.org/)

# Data Scientists and Data Analysts 
If you are a data scientist or a data analyst, I highly recommend joining INFORMS because it will help you learn how to ensure your analytics is more actionable and useful. INFORMS is unique because of the history of the organization which is rooted in a field called "Operations Research" which includes what we now call prescriptive analytics like optimization as well as some related specializations like simulation and queuing theory. While that history has influenced the organization and the membership, it is the way people in INFORMS use data to drive decisions that I think is desperately needed in the field of analytics, and otherwise is rare to find.

[Here is a post I wrote](https://typethreeerror.beehiiv.com/p/what-makes-a-decision-data-driven) that tries to introduce some of these ideas. [Here is an article](https://pubsonline.informs.org/do/10.1287/LYTX.2022.06.02/full/) in INFORMS' Analytics Magazine (free to subscribe and you don't have to be a member) where I also cover some of these ideas in more depth. The short version is if you'd like your analysis to be useful, getting good at prescriptive analytics helps you see how to do so. And if you'd like to get good at prescriptive analytics and get exposed to the ways in which it changes your approach, the best way I know how is to join INFORMS and participate.

# Data Engineers 
If you are a data engineer, I highly recommend joining INFORMS because it will help you learn how to ensure your analytics is more actionable and useful. INFORMS is unique because of the history of the organization which is rooted in a field called "Operations Research" which includes what we now call prescriptive analytics like optimization as well as some related specializations like simulation and queuing theory. While that history has influenced the organization and the membership, it is the way people in INFORMS use data to drive decisions that I think is desperately needed in the field of data, and otherwise is rare to find. 

For Data Engineers, most of the people in INFORMS are more focused on "Advanced Analytics," so if you are not experienced with Machine Learning / predictive / prescriptive analytics, a lot more of INFORMS will be greek to you. I found the book "You Look Like a Thing and I Love You" by Janelle Shane really helpful to get a bit more of an intuitive understanding of the predictive side of things. For prescriptive analytics I wrote [this article](https://typethreeerror.beehiiv.com/p/recognizing-your-assumptions) which has a link to an excel spreadsheet and instructions for trying out a prescriptive analytics model. Another really accessible example of prescriptive analytics is navigation tools like Google Maps (which also has some predictions built in to try to figure out how traffic patterns may change). 

While data engineers may not be developing predictive or prescriptive models, there are certainly ways in which it is helpful to understand what it means for data to be useful. Some data engineers are more in the role of what I would call "setting up source systems." If that's your domain, an understanding of analytics will not be core to your job. However, if the data will ever be used beyond a very transactional way, there's a benefit from learning more about analytics (e.g., a transactional view is we enter the shipping information for an order so it can be tracked by a customer. A non-transactional way is we then take that data to understand our on-time shipment rate). The short version is if you'd like data you touch to be useful for analysis, getting an understanding of prescriptive analytics helps you see how to do so. And if you'd like to get good at prescriptive analytics and get exposed to the ways in which it changes your approach, the best way I know how is to join INFORMS and participate.

# Suggestions if You Decide to Join INFORMS

A few suggestions of how to get involved after you join:
* My first suggestion is actually as you are joining, to pick the right communities as you pay your dues. I am a member of The Practice Section which has a monthly networking happy hour, webinars, and several other activities. There are also some local chapters, groups focused on various topic areas, and so on. Read through your options carefully as this is your best on-ramp into the organization.
* Learn how to use INFORMS Connect. [The Industry Open Forum](https://connect.informs.org/communities/community-home?CommunityKey=2f1ba198-2940-42cf-a956-fdf695de8cd8) has interesting discussions and you are always welcome to start a thread. There are many other communities, and you will automatically be added to some that could be relevant to you. You can also change your email settings (if you, for example, do not want to get an email from the general Open Forum every day).
* Look through the [INFORMS youtube channel](https://www.youtube.com/@INFORMSonline/videos) There are some fantastic webinars, some competition videos, interviews, and many other resources. This is also an option if you are not yet an INFORMS member.
* Consider the [Certified Analytics Professional](https://www.certifiedanalytics.org/) Which includes a study guide, information about the exam, and a rigorous description of the analytics process.
* [Consider a conference](https://www.informs.org/Meetings-Conferences/INFORMS-Conference-Calendar) if at all possible. The Analytics Conference occurs annually and is a great opportunity to meet people and learn.
* [Subscribe to Analytics Magazine](https://pubsonline.informs.org/magazine/analytics/subscribe) though you can do this whether or not you are a member.

INFORMS as it exists today has a focus on people who are in academia which means there are a lot of resources that may not be relevant to you if you are a working professional. However, there is immense value in many things that are available, and so I recommend learning how to navigate those different areas and find the things that help you excel in the field.
